readme.markdown, before:

# traverse

Traverse and transform objects by visiting every node on a recursive walk.

[![browser support](http://ci.testling.com/substack/js-traverse.png)](http://ci.testling.com/substack/js-traverse)

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/substack/js-traverse.png)](http://travis-ci.org/substack/js-traverse)

# examples

## transform negative numbers in-place

negative.js

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');
var obj = [ 5, 6, -3, [ 7, 8, -2, 1 ], { f : 10, g : -13 } ];

traverse(obj).forEach(function (x) {
    if (x < 0) this.update(x + 128);
});

console.dir(obj);
````

Output:

    [ 5, 6, 125, [ 7, 8, 126, 1 ], { f: 10, g: 115 } ]

## collect leaf nodes

leaves.js

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');

var obj = {
    a : [1,2,3],
    b : 4,
    c : [5,6],
    d : { e : [7,8], f : 9 },
};

var leaves = traverse(obj).reduce(function (acc, x) {
    if (this.isLeaf) acc.push(x);
    return acc;
}, []);

console.dir(leaves);
````

Output:

    [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ]

## scrub circular references

scrub.js:

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');

var obj = { a : 1, b : 2, c : [ 3, 4 ] };
obj.c.push(obj);

var scrubbed = traverse(obj).map(function (x) {
    if (this.circular) this.remove()
});
console.dir(scrubbed);
````

output:

    { a: 1, b: 2, c: [ 3, 4 ] }

# methods

Each method that takes an `fn` uses the context documented below in the context
section.

## .map(fn)

Execute `fn` for each node in the object and return a new object with the
results of the walk. To update nodes in the result use `this.update(value)`.

## .forEach(fn)

Execute `fn` for each node in the object but unlike `.map()`, when
`this.update()` is called it updates the object in-place.

## .reduce(fn, acc)

For each node in the object, perform a
[left-fold](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fold_(higher-order_function))
with the return value of `fn(acc, node)`.

If `acc` isn't specified, `acc` is set to the root object for the first step
and the root element is skipped.

## .paths()

Return an `Array` of every possible non-cyclic path in the object.
Paths are `Array`s of string keys.

## .nodes()

Return an `Array` of every node in the object.

## .clone()

Create a deep clone of the object.

## .get(path)

Get the element at the array or string `path`.

## .set(path, value)

Set the element at the array or string `path` to `value`.

## .has(path)

Return whether the element at the array or string `path` exists.

# context

Each method that takes a callback has a context (its `this` object) with these
attributes:

## this.node

The present node on the recursive walk

## this.path

An array of string keys from the root to the present node

## this.parent

The context of the node's parent.
This is `undefined` for the root node.

## this.key

The name of the key of the present node in its parent.
This is `undefined` for the root node.

## this.isRoot, this.notRoot

Whether the present node is the root node

## this.isLeaf, this.notLeaf

Whether or not the present node is a leaf node (has no children)

## this.level

Depth of the node within the traversal

## this.circular

If the node equals one of its parents, the `circular` attribute is set to the
context of that parent and the traversal progresses no deeper.

## this.update(value, stopHere=false)

Set a new value for the present node.

All the elements in `value` will be recursively traversed unless `stopHere` is
true.

## this.remove(stopHere=false)

Remove the current element from the output. If the node is in an Array it will
be spliced off. Otherwise it will be deleted from its parent.

## this.delete(stopHere=false)

Delete the current element from its parent in the output. Calls `delete` even on
Arrays.

## this.before(fn)

Call this function before any of the children are traversed.

You can assign into `this.keys` here to traverse in a custom order.

## this.after(fn)

Call this function after any of the children are traversed.

## this.pre(fn)

Call this function before each of the children are traversed.

## this.post(fn)

Call this function after each of the children are traversed.


# install

Using [npm](http://npmjs.org) do:

    $ npm install traverse

# license

MIT

Commit message:

Add .remove and .delete methods to the prototype

readme.markdown, after:

# traverse

Traverse and transform objects by visiting every node on a recursive walk.

[![browser support](http://ci.testling.com/substack/js-traverse.png)](http://ci.testling.com/substack/js-traverse)

[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/substack/js-traverse.png)](http://travis-ci.org/substack/js-traverse)

# examples

## transform negative numbers in-place

negative.js

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');
var obj = [ 5, 6, -3, [ 7, 8, -2, 1 ], { f : 10, g : -13 } ];

traverse(obj).forEach(function (x) {
    if (x < 0) this.update(x + 128);
});

console.dir(obj);
````

Output:

    [ 5, 6, 125, [ 7, 8, 126, 1 ], { f: 10, g: 115 } ]

## collect leaf nodes

leaves.js

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');

var obj = {
    a : [1,2,3],
    b : 4,
    c : [5,6],
    d : { e : [7,8], f : 9 },
};

var leaves = traverse(obj).reduce(function (acc, x) {
    if (this.isLeaf) acc.push(x);
    return acc;
}, []);

console.dir(leaves);
````

Output:

    [ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ]

## scrub circular references

scrub.js:

````javascript
var traverse = require('traverse');

var obj = { a : 1, b : 2, c : [ 3, 4 ] };
obj.c.push(obj);

var scrubbed = traverse(obj).map(function (x) {
    if (this.circular) this.remove()
});
console.dir(scrubbed);
````

output:

    { a: 1, b: 2, c: [ 3, 4 ] }

# methods

Each method that takes an `fn` uses the context documented below in the context
section.

## .map(fn)

Execute `fn` for each node in the object and return a new object with the
results of the walk. To update nodes in the result use `this.update(value)`.

## .forEach(fn)

Execute `fn` for each node in the object but unlike `.map()`, when
`this.update()` is called it updates the object in-place.

## .reduce(fn, acc)

For each node in the object, perform a
[left-fold](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fold_(higher-order_function))
with the return value of `fn(acc, node)`.

If `acc` isn't specified, `acc` is set to the root object for the first step
and the root element is skipped.

## .paths()

Return an `Array` of every possible non-cyclic path in the object.
Paths are `Array`s of string keys.

## .nodes()

Return an `Array` of every node in the object.

## .clone()

Create a deep clone of the object.

## .get(path)

Get the element at the array or string `path`.

## .set(path, value)

Set the element at the array or string `path` to `value`.

## .delete(path)

Delete the element at the array or string `path`. This will call `delete` on whatever the end path is, which means that if the parent is an object,
it's key will be removed. If it's an array, the element at that position will be set to `undefined`. If you want to remove elements from arrays use
`.remove()`.

## .remove(path)

Like `.delete()`, but it will remove values from arrays, instead of setting them to `undefined`.

## .has(path)

Return whether the element at the array or string `path` exists.

# context

Each method that takes a callback has a context (its `this` object) with these
attributes:

## this.node

The present node on the recursive walk

## this.path

An array of string keys from the root to the present node

## this.parent

The context of the node's parent.
This is `undefined` for the root node.

## this.key

The name of the key of the present node in its parent.
This is `undefined` for the root node.

## this.isRoot, this.notRoot

Whether the present node is the root node

## this.isLeaf, this.notLeaf

Whether or not the present node is a leaf node (has no children)

## this.level

Depth of the node within the traversal

## this.circular

If the node equals one of its parents, the `circular` attribute is set to the
context of that parent and the traversal progresses no deeper.

## this.update(value, stopHere=false)

Set a new value for the present node.

All the elements in `value` will be recursively traversed unless `stopHere` is
true.

## this.remove(stopHere=false)

Remove the current element from the output. If the node is in an Array it will
be spliced off. Otherwise it will be deleted from its parent.

## this.delete(stopHere=false)

Delete the current element from its parent in the output. Calls `delete` even on
Arrays.

## this.before(fn)

Call this function before any of the children are traversed.

You can assign into `this.keys` here to traverse in a custom order.

## this.after(fn)

Call this function after any of the children are traversed.

## this.pre(fn)

Call this function before each of the children are traversed.

## this.post(fn)

Call this function after each of the children are traversed.


# install

Using [npm](http://npmjs.org) do:

    $ npm install traverse

# license

MIT
